<h1 align="center">
  21bitcoin.fr
</h1>

## About

21bitcoin.fr is a french website to discover some news or fact about Bitcoin.

Built with Next.js

## Contribute

#### _Set-up Locally_

[Fork this repository](https://github.com/Dolu89/21bitcoin/fork)

In your terminal, navigate to where you would like this blog to live, then run

```bash
#clone the repo
git clone git@github.com:YOUR_GITHUB_NAME/21bitcoin.git

#navigate to the directory
cd 21bitcoin

#install dependencies & run dev server with yarn
yarn install
yarn develop

```

This will start a dev server, navigate to [localhost:3000](localhost:3000) to check it out.

## Project Structure

- Edit styles within each component or page file within the `<style jsx>` tags.
- Global styles live in the `Meta` component.
- `posts/`contains all markdown blog posts.
- `static/` is where you images live and will get uploaded.
- `pages` is where you page components live.
- The blog pages are dynamically generated with a `slug` parameter. See the template in `pages/blog/[slug].js`.
- The pages & template are comprised of components from `components`.
- The routes are generated at the page level, with the dynamic blog routes being generated by `getStaticPaths` in `pages/blog/[slug].js`.

## Add blog post

- Create a new public slides on [slides.com](https://slides.com) and copy its link (eg. https://slides.com/dolu/21-millions)
- Create or duplicate a markdown file `./posts/your-slug.md`
> `description` property is used for description meta tag. It's not the blog content 

## Thumbnails generation

Since blog posts are using [slides.com](https://slides.com) as presentation media, you can easily generate a thumbnail of your slides

- Your slides.com presentation has to have a first slide finalized
- Make sur your `./posts/your-slug.md` contains your slides.com link
- Then launch this command

```bash
node ./screenshot.js
```

This script verify if a markdown file in `./posts` folder doesn't have a thumbnail associated. If there is no thumbnail associated (21-millions.md should have 21-millions.png), this script will generate one using puppeteer. (script still in WIP)